## Visualisation
Visualisations are based on the entered Objects, Sub-Objects and relationships between Objects. You can use the [Conditions](/usage/conditions/README.md) and [Visualisation Settings](/usage/visualisation/visualisation_settings.md#visuals) to customise the behaviour and the design of the visualisations. Visualisation visualise the currently active filter or Object.

### Date Slider
By default, the Date Slider will display a period and selection based on the visualised data. This behaviour can be changed by means of the [Frame settings](/usage/visualisation/visualisation_settings.md#frame). Use the left and right handlers to expand or shrink the selection. Use the left and right buttons to move the selection backward or forward in time or drag the selection backward and forward in time. Use the date input fields to enter a start and/or end date for the selection. Use the input fields below the date slider to animate the selection with a specified amount of time. Specify an amount and select a unit ('day'/'week'/'month'/'year') to be played per second. Click the play, pause, or stop buttons to control the playback of the animation. Check the checkbox 'Play selection backwards in time.' to play the selecion backwards in time. Click the 'View Selection' button to view the selection of Objects currenlty active in the visualisation.

### Zoom
By default, the zoom level will display all the visualised data. This behaviour can be changed by means of the [Frame settings](/usage/visualisation/visualisation_settings.md#frame). Click the '+' button to zoom in. Click the '-' button to zoom out.

### Legend
In the Geographical Visualisation, the legend displays the autogenerated colours per kind of Sub-Object. In the Social Visualisation, the legend displays the specified colours per Type. Sub-Objects and Objects can be highlighted and included in the legend by means of the [Conditions](/usage/conditions/README.md).

### Geographical Visualisation
Click on the globe icon to open the Geographical Visualisation.

The Geographical Visualisation displays occurrences of Sub-Objects and connections between Sub-Objects of one Object or generated by one Object. Connections are made based on chronology. Co-occurring Sub-Objects are grouped in one location. The size of the node depicts the amount of Sub-Objects co-occurring in one location, relative to the maximum amount of Sub-Objects co-occuring in one location. When different kinds of Sub-Objects co-occur in one location, a pie chart shows the proportion of occurrences of each kind of Sub-Object.

Hover over a node or a path to see a info box containing information about the data behind the node or path. Clicking on a node or path opens a popup that shows the data behind the node or path.

### Social Visualisation
Click on the network icon to open the Social Visualisation.

The Social Visualisation displays links between Objects. The size of the node depicts the amount of links connected to the node, relative to the maximum amount of links connected to one node. The weight of the links depicts the number of connections between two nodes. The layout of the Social Visualisation is based on the [D3](https://github.com/d3/d3-force) implementation of a [force directed graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Force-directed_graph_drawing). 

Hover over a node to see the name of the node and an info box on the right side of the visualisation. Clicking on a node opens a popup that shows the data behind the node or path. Use the input field on the right side of the visualisation to find a specific node in the visualisation.

### Temporal Visualisation
Click on the calendar icon to open the Temporal Visualisation.