# nodegoat Basics

So, what is nodegoat in short? This is an important question, because if you understand what nodegoat is about and grasp the fundamentals of how it works, then using nodegoat will probably be much easier for you. As you learn how to work with nodegoat, try to clear your mind of what you may know about other database and visualisation software packages. This will help you avoid confusion when learning how to use nodegoat. nodegoat thinks about information differently than other systems. Understanding these differences will help prevent you from becoming confused while using it.

* **nodegoat is a data management tool first, an analysis and visualisation tool second.** This makes nodegoat a powerful tool, since you can design a custom made data model that covers every aspect of your research question. This also means that you have to design a data model in nodegoat first, before you can use any of nodegoat's functionalities. If you have never created a data model before, nodegoat is a great opportunity to learn how you can best do this. 
* **Type → Object → Sub-Object.** While other terms will also come up, this hierarchy covers the essence of the way nodegoat handles data. Your data will be organised by Types, e.g. 'Person', 'Book', or 'Event'. Each Type contains Objects, e.d. 'Ľudovít Štúr', 'Herfsttij der Middeleeuwen', or 'Polish Uprising' respectively. These Objects contain Sub-Objects that contextualise these Objects in space and time, e.g. 'Birth', 'Publication', or 'Occurrence' respectively.
*  **Time and Space matter.** nodegoat was initially conceptualised for and by researchers in the humanities. The result of this is that the core of nodegoat centers around spatiality, chronology, and relationality. Whenever possible, it is advisable to use Sub-Objects to contextualise your Objects in time and space. Of course, you can use nodegoat in completely atemporal and non-spatial manner as well. 
* **nodegoat enables explorative research.** Due to the flexibility that nodegoat offers and the instant visual feedback it provides, nodegoat excels in explorative research processes.  
